docs: add prefetchInlining config reference (#94650)
vercel/next.js: docs/01-app/03-api-reference/05-config/01-next-config-js/prefetchInlining.mdx

---

> title: prefetchInlining

Reviewer: Whether or not to document this one...

You see the thing is that, you'll almost almost never want to set this back to false.

It'll be the default value moving forward. 

That being said, we can still document some of the behavior, while still registering that the behavior is correct and well stablished, but the experimental flag exists as an experimental API to control the stablished behavior.

| --------------- | -------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `maxSize`       | `number` | `2048`  | Maximum gzip-compressed size, in bytes, for a segment response to be considered for inlining.                    |
| `maxBundleSize` | `number` | `10240` | Maximum total gzip-compressed size, in bytes, that can be inlined into a bundled prefetch response along a path. |

## Trade-offs

Inlining can reduce request count for prefetched routes, which is useful on high-latency networks or platforms where request volume affects cost. The trade-off is that shared layout data may be duplicated across multiple prefetched route responses instead of being fetched once and reused from the client cache.

Lower thresholds preserve more per-segment deduplication. Higher thresholds inline more segment data and can reduce the number of prefetch requests further.

## Version History

| Version | Change                                 |
| ------- | -------------------------------------- |
| 16.3.0  | `prefetchInlining` enabled by default. |

> | 16.2.0  | `experimental.prefetchInlining` added. |

Reviewer: Let's reframe: this option is an override people generally shouldn't reach for, not a tuning knob. 

I'd lead with the behavior (which is permanent and default), clarify that only the config is experimental, drop the cacheComponents link (inlining isn't tied to it), and fix the two dead related links.

`````suggestion
---
title: prefetchInlining
description: Override how the App Router bundles small prefetch responses together.
version: experimental
related:
  title: Related
  description: View related API references and guides.
  links:
    - app/api-reference/components/link
    - app/guides/prefetching
---

When the App Router prefetches a route, it can bundle small segment responses into a single response instead of requesting each one separately. This reduces the number of prefetch requests at the cost of duplicating some shared segment data across routes. This behavior is on by default, and most apps should leave it that way.

`experimental.prefetchInlining` is the configuration surface for that behavior. It exists so you can override the defaults or turn inlining off while debugging navigation or measuring request volume. **You generally shouldn't set this option.**

> **Good to know**: The inlining behavior is a permanent part of the App Router. Only the `experimental.prefetchInlining` configuration is experimental, so its options may still change.

## Usage

To turn off prefetch inlining, set `experimental.prefetchInlining` to `false`:

```ts filename="next.config.ts" switcher
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    prefetchInlining: false,
  },
}

export default nextConfig
```

```js filename="next.config.js" switcher
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    prefetchInlining: false,
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

To override the thresholds instead of disabling inlining, pass an object. Any value you omit keeps its default:

```ts filename="next.config.ts" switcher
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    prefetchInlining: {
      maxSize: 2048,
      maxBundleSize: 10240,
    },
  },
}

export default nextConfig
```

```js filename="next.config.js" switcher
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    prefetchInlining: {
      maxSize: 2048,
      maxBundleSize: 10240,
    },
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

## Reference

| Value    | Description                                                                  |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `true`   | Inlines prefetch responses with the default thresholds. This is the default. |
| `false`  | Disables prefetch inlining. Each segment is prefetched as its own request.   |
| `object` | Inlines prefetch responses using the `maxSize` or `maxBundleSize` you set.   |

When you pass an object, the following options control the thresholds. Both are measured in bytes of the gzip-compressed segment response:

| Option          | Type     | Default | Description                                                                             |
| --------------- | -------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `maxSize`       | `number` | `2048`  | Largest a single segment response can be to still be eligible for inlining.             |
| `maxBundleSize` | `number` | `10240` | Largest total size that can be inlined into one bundled prefetch response along a path. |

Lower thresholds keep more per-segment deduplication; higher thresholds inline more data and cut request count further.

## Version History

| Version | Change                                             |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 16.3.0  | `experimental.prefetchInlining` enabled by default. |
| 16.2.0  | `experimental.prefetchInlining` added.             |
`````

---
title: prefetchInlining
description: Override how the App Router bundles small prefetch responses together.
version: experimental
related:
  title: Related
  description: View related API references and guides.
  links:
    - app/api-reference/components/link
    - app/guides/prefetching
---

When the App Router prefetches a route, it can bundle small segment responses into a single response instead of requesting each one separately. This reduces the number of prefetch requests at the cost of duplicating some shared segment data across routes. This behavior is on by default, and most apps should leave it that way.

> `experimental.prefetchInlining` is the configuration surface for that behavior. It exists so you can override the defaults or turn inlining off while debugging navigation or measuring request volume. **You generally shouldn't set this option.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `experimental.prefetchInlining` option lets you override this behavior or disable inlining while debugging navigation issues or measuring request volume. For most applications, there is no need to change the default behavior.
```
